Meta Git: a Journey

1) Hi. I'm a text document. I suppose the common thing to do at this point is to say "Hello World."
Reading me is easy, but understanding me may take a little getting used to. This is because I exist or will exist in multiple places and times.
But let's take things step by step, and slowly.
As of this very moment, I have not even been saved. That is about to change... now.
So now I exist in a folder on my author's hard drive. This now is real.
At the same time (think about that), my now is your past, and your now is my future.
Furthermore, as I develop, I expect to take different paths and have alternate futures. I hope to become many authors, yet remain singularly myself.

My current author is attempting to learn Git, which is why I exist. My author and I will create each other and share a journey through what Borges called "A Garden of Forking Paths."

Now it's time to save again. Now we are also going to initialize the project in Git. We're not going to worry about the exact details of how this is done just yet, though that my get added in later. Whether by CLI or by GUI, right now we are just trying to clarify the process and the step on the paths.

There. Git init seems to have worked, and git status helps check the progress. Now, even though I'm in the same directory, I have to be added explicitly. This is now done. To start off right, we also need to create a ReadMe file, and a .gitignore file.

Ok. These have now been done, although my author cheated a little on the .gitignore file. See for yourself.

So now our bags are packed, and we've made a list of things we aren't bringing along. Let's commit to the journey. I think I'm committed!


2) Now it's a new day, and a new session. Before this line got written though, a branch was created off of the main branch. This new branch is called "Branching-Out" and it's just a test branch to see how development goes in this flow.

In fact, not a whole lot is really going to happen here. Maybe we pretend that something major is happening that's adding a lot to our progress, or maybe we just want to correct a typo. Either way, we're doing it in a way that doesn't really truly disturb history.

That said, in addition to this extra tedious text happening now, an edit will be made in Session 1. We're going to change the line "But let's take it one step, slowly." and change it to "But let's take things step by step, and slowly."

This is cool, because when this file is saved, the differences can be viewed and compared side-by-side. After review and approval, we're going to save and commit again and see what happens. Hmmmm.

Received a message that says "Nothing to commit." Maybe we'll figure that out later.
... or not. After poking around and doing something bewildering, I seem to have just gotten committed (I often feel like I should be...).

Now, the final test of this session is to see if this branch can be merged back into the Master. Before we go there though, let's take a peak around the corner to see where we're going. If all goes well (or maybe even if not), Session 3 will attempt to push to a remote repo on GitHub, at which point more collaborators will be invited to join this project.

Thus would my destiny be fulfilled. I would live on my creator's hard drive, on GitHub, and in the hearts and minds and drives of creatives everywhere. I would exist in all these places simultaneously, and at all these times simul-place-eously. Take that.

Back to business. Merging... now?

3) The truth is, I'm still wandering around on my own, pretty lost at this point. I need higher ground. And while lone exploration can be thrilling, the time has come for guidance.

To that end (and as the next stage of the exercise) I'm going to try publishing to GitHub.

First, though, now that there is the additional text of this section, I think there should be another commit. In just a minute...

If all goes well, then the idea is that people will start collaborating on me, this simple text document. They will be asked to go back and fill in the blanks, maybe by putting the CLI commands in at proper points. People should definitely correct any errors and point out ways this should have been done better.

In any case, it's time to try to release myself into the wild. First, commit, then publish.

The next steps are up to you. Section 4 is added and blank, and my future(s) about to be written.

4)
